Update chainide doc s3 links (#1158)
maticnetwork/matic-docs: docs/develop/chainide.md

  - environment
  - smart contract
  - chainIDE
image: https://matic.network/banners/matic-network-16x9.png
---

> ## Introduction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## **Introduction**
```

## Setting up a Wallet

### **Install MetaMask**

A gas fee must be paid when deploying a smart contract on the blockchain or making a transaction to a deployed smart contract, and we must do so using a crypto wallet, such as MetaMask. To download MetaMask, click [here](https://metamask.io/).

> ### **Adding Mumbai Testnet**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### **Adding the Mumbai testnet**
```

After installing MetaMask, you need to add the Polygon Mumbai Testnet to MetaMask. In order to add Mumbai Testnet, check out the configuration guide for [MetaMask](https://docs.polygon.technology/docs/develop/metamask/config-polygon-on-metamask).

<div style={{ display: 'flex', justifyContent: 'center', alignItems: 'center' }}>
  <img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image.png" />
</div>

> ### **Obtaining $MATIC Tokens on Testnet**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### **Obtaining MATIC tokens on testnet**
```

> After adding the Mumbai Testnet to MetaMask, go to the [Polygon Faucet](https://faucet.polygon.technology/) to receive testnet tokens. These tokens are required to pay gas fees in order to deploy and interact with the smart contract. On the faucet page, choose Mumbai as the network, $MATIC as the token, and paste your MetaMask wallet address. Then, click submit and the faucet will send you some test $MATIC within a minute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After adding the Mumbai testnet on MetaMask, visit the [Polygon Faucet](https://faucet.polygon.technology/) to request testnet tokens. These tokens are required to pay gas fees in order to deploy and interact with the smart contract. On the faucet page, select "Mumbai" as the network, "MATIC" as the token, and paste your MetaMask wallet address. Then, click submit and the faucet will send you some test MATIC within a minute.
```

:::note

Note down the **compiler version** and the **license** for your source code. It would be needed when you **Verify** your smart contract on the **Polygon Mumbai Testnet**.

:::

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(1).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

## **Deploy an ERC-721 Smart Contract**

After successful compilation, it's time to deploy your compiled ERC-721 smart contract to the Polygon Mumbai Testnet. Before you deploy, you need to have MetaMask installed, the Mumbai test network added to your wallet, and some testnet $MATIC tokens to pay for the transaction fees.

Navigate to the **Deploy & Interaction** module and choose among the compiled smart contract. Select the smart contract you want to deploy and click the **Deploy** button. For this tutorial, the `GameItem` smart contract will be deployed.

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(2).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

> ### **Check Functions from the Deployed Contract**

Reviewer 2: can leave as is

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(15).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

## **Minting NFT**

To mint an NFT, you need to use the **Award Item** function, the wallet address of someone to whom you want to award an NFT, and the link of the photo uploaded to IPFS to be pasted in the token URL input field.

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(4).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(5).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

After successful minting, you can check the minted NFT on the OpenSea NFT marketplace. Visit [OpenSea Testnet](https://testnets.opensea.io/), connect your MetaMask wallet and make sure the selected network is Polygon Mumbai Testnet, and you'll be able to see and trade the minted NFT on the OpenSea NFT marketplace.

Congratulations, you have successfully minted an NFT on Polygon using ChainIDE.

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(6).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

> **Congratulations, you have successfully minted an NFT on Polygon using ChainIDE.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Hey @xiadd, please remove this line as it's a duplicate. Thanks.

> ### Install MetaMask

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### **Install MetaMask**
```

> When deploying a smart contract on the blockchain or when making a transaction to a deployed smart contract, a gas fee must be paid, and for that, we need to use a crypto wallet which can be MetaMask. Click [here](https://metamask.io/) to install MetaMask.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A gas fee must be paid when deploying a smart contract on the blockchain or making a transaction to a deployed smart contract, and we must do so using a crypto wallet, such as MetaMask. To download MetaMask, click [here](https://metamask.io/).
```

> ### Manually adding the Mumbai testnet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### **Adding Mumbai Testnet**
```

> After installing MetaMask, you need to manually add the Polygon Mumbai Testnet to MetaMask. To add Polygon Mumbai Testnet to MetaMask, see the [MetaMask Polygon documentation](https://docs.polygon.technology/docs/develop/metamask/config-polygon-on-metamask#add-the-polygon-network-manually).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installing MetaMask, you need to add the Polygon Mumbai Testnet to MetaMask. In order to add Mumbai Testnet, check out the configuration guide for [MetaMask](https://docs.polygon.technology/docs/develop/metamask/config-polygon-on-metamask).
```

<div style={{ display: 'flex', justifyContent: 'center', alignItems: 'center' }}>
  <img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image.png" />
</div>

> ### Obtaining Testnet Matic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### **Obtaining $MATIC Tokens on Testnet**
```

> Once Mumbai has been added to MetaMask, navigate to the [Polygon Faucet](https://faucet.polygon.technology/) to receive test tokens. Tokens are needed to pay for gas fees to deploy and interact with the smart contract. On the faucet page, choose Mumbai as the network, MATIC as the token and paste your MetaMask wallet address. Then, click submit and faucet will send you some test MATIC within a minute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After adding the Mumbai Testnet to MetaMask, go to the [Polygon Faucet](https://faucet.polygon.technology/) to receive testnet tokens. These tokens are required to pay gas fees in order to deploy and interact with the smart contract. On the faucet page, choose Mumbai as the network, $MATIC as the token, and paste your MetaMask wallet address. Then, click submit and the faucet will send you some test $MATIC within a minute.
```

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/Polygon_PR_get_tokens.png" width="100%" height="100%" />

> ## Write an ERC-721 Smart Contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## **Write an ERC-721 Smart Contract**
```

You need to write down all the required functions that you want to implement in your ERC-721 smart contract. A general ERC-721 smart contract has the following functions:

- `balanceOf()`: returns the number of NFTs held by the owner.
- `ownerOf()`: returns the address of the token holder.
- `approve()`: approves the permission to transfer tokens on the owner’s behalf. Approval event needs to be triggered after the method is successful.

> - `setApprovalForAll()`: Sets the approval of a given operator, and the approvalforall event needs to be triggered after success.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `setApprovalForAll()`: Sets the approval of a given operator, and the `approvalforall` event needs to be triggered after success.
```

> Then, click on "New Project" and select "Polygon" , "ERC721 Showcase".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, click on **New Project** and select **Polygon**. You will be presented with a list of available public templates. Select **ERC721 Showcase**.
```

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/Using+ChainIDE+polygon/select+polygon+showcase.png" width="100%" height="100%" />

Now, you can see the template contract, **Creature.sol**, that includes all the required functions.

> After creating the project, click on the "unconnected button" in the upper right corner, select the "Injected Web3 Provider" button, and then select on MetaMask to connect to the MetaMask wallet (Polygon Mainnet is the main network, and Mumbai is the test network - connect to Mumbai).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating the project, click on the **Unconnected** button in the upper right corner, select the **Injected Web3 Provider** button, and then click on MetaMask to connect your wallet (Polygon Mainnet is the main network, and Mumbai is the test network - connect to Mumbai).
```

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/Using+ChainIDE+polygon/connect+mumbai.png" width="100%" height="100%" />

> ## Compile an ERC-721 Smart Contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## **Compile an ERC-721 Smart Contract**
```

> After you have completed your smart contract, it is time to compile it. To compile, navigate to "compile the module", choose an appropriate compiler according to your source code, and press the "compile" button. An ABI and bytecode for the source code are generated upon successful compilation. If there are some errors in your source code, they will be displayed under the output panel in the "Logger module". You may need to carefully read the error, resolve it accordingly and compile the contract again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have completed your smart contract, it is time to compile it. To compile, navigate to "compile the module", choose an appropriate compiler according to your source code, and press the "compile" button. An ABI and bytecode for the source code are generated upon successful compilation. If there are any errors in your source code, they will be displayed in the "Logger module" under the output panel. You may need to carefully read the error, resolve it, and recompile the contract.
```

:::note

> Note down the compiler version and the license for your source code as it would be needed when you verify your smart contract on the Polygon Mumbai Testnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note down the **compiler version** and the **license** for your source code. It would be needed when you **Verify** your smart contract on the **Polygon Mumbai Testnet**.
```

:::

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(1).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

> ## Deploy an ERC-721 Smart Contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## **Deploy an ERC-721 Smart Contract**
```

> After successful compilation, it's time to deploy your compiled ERC-721 smart contract to the Polygon Mumbai test network. For that, you need to have MetaMask installed, the Polygon Mumbai test network added to your wallet, and some testnet tokens to pay for the transaction fee.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successful compilation, it's time to deploy your compiled ERC-721 smart contract to the Polygon Mumbai Testnet. Before you deploy, you need to have MetaMask installed, the Mumbai test network added to your wallet, and some testnet $MATIC tokens to pay for the transaction fees.
```

> Navigate to the "Deploy & Interaction" module and choose among the compiled smart contract. Select the smart contract you want to deploy and click the "deploy" button. For this tutorial, the `GameItem` smart contract will be deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the **Deploy & Interaction** module and choose among the compiled smart contract. Select the smart contract you want to deploy and click the **Deploy** button. For this tutorial, the `GameItem` smart contract will be deployed.
```

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(2).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

> ### Check functions from the deployed contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### **Check Functions from the Deployed Contract**
```

> After successful deployment, an output message should state that your smart contract was deployed successfully. You can now verify the deployed contract. All the functions in the deployed smart contract can be seen in the "INTERACT" panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successful deployment, an output message should state that your smart contract was deployed successfully. You can now verify the deployed contract. All the functions in the deployed smart contract can be seen in the **INTERACT** panel.
```

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(3).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

> ## Create a Flattened File using Flattener Library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## **Create a Flattened File using Flattener Library**
```

> To verify a smart contract that imports other smart contracts, we need to create a flattened file, a flattened file including all the source code of imported contracts in a single file. To create a flattened file, you need to add a "Flattener" plug-in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify a smart contract that imports other smart contracts, we need to create a flattened file. A flattened file includes all the source codes of imported contracts in a single file. To create a flattened file, you need to add a **Flattener** plug-in.
```

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(7).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

> Once the ner plug-in is activated, you'll be able to access it as a separate module as shown in the figure below. Choose the compiled file, and click on the flatten button to create a flattened file, once the flattened file is created, it will be automatically copied to the clipboard, you may paste it to a file and save it for later usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the **Flattener** plug-in is activated, you'll be able to access it as a separate module as shown in the figure below. Choose the compiled file, and click on the **Flatten** button to create a flattened file. Once the flattened file is created, it will be automatically copied to the clipboard. You may paste it into a file and save it for later usage.
```

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(8).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

> If you want to save the flattened file, click save button, and a flattened file will be saved in the current repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to save the flattened file, click the **Save** button, and a flattened file will be saved in the current repository.
```

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(9).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

> The saved flattened file can be access under the explorer module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The saved flattened file can be accessed under the explorer module.
```

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(10).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

> ## Verify a Smart Contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## **Verify a Smart Contract**
```

To verify a smart contract, you need to visit [Mumbai Polygonscan](https://mumbai.polygonscan.com/), and search for the deployed smart contract using the contract address.

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(11).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

> Click on the "verify and publish" link shown under the contract section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on the **Verify and Publish** link shown under the contract section.
```

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(12).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

Once you click on the verify and publish link, you will be asked for the following:

- Contract Address: The address of a deployed smart contract that you want to verify
- Compiler Type: Either you want to verify a single file or multiple files
- Compiler Version: The compiler version that you used to compile the smart contract
- License: Open-source license type that you used for your source code

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(13).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

After that, you need to paste the flattened file that you created in step 5, and your smart contract will be verified.

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(14).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

If there are no issues with your smart contract, it would be verified, and you'll be able to see an image similar to the one that is shown below.

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(15).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

> ## NFT Minting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## **Minting NFT**
```

To mint an NFT, you need to use the "award item" function, the wallet address of someone to whom you want to award an NFT too, and the link of the photo uploaded to IPFS needs to be pasted in the token URL input field.

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(4).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(5).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

After successful minting, you can check the minted NFT on the OpenSea NFT marketplace. Visit [OpenSea Testnet](https://testnets.opensea.io/), connect your MetaMask wallet and make sure the selected network is Polygon Mumbai Testnet, and you'll be able to see and trade the minted NFT on the OpenSea NFT marketplace.

<img src="https://d3gvnlbntpm4ho.cloudfront.net/ERC+721+Deployment+on++Mumbai/image+(6).png" width="100%" height="100%" />

> **Congratulations, you have successfully minted an NFT on Polygon using ChainIDE.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
